Specification: LSB Core Generic
Specification: LSB Core IA32, IA64, PPC32, PPC64, S390, S390X, AMD64
Edition of Specification: 3.2
Type: Error
Status: Unapproved, new text
Bug reference: http://bugs.linuxbase.org/show_bug.cgi?id=2375

Rationale: the bindresvport() function was incompletely specified,
and incorrectly listed the EPERM error for a condition for which
it is not set.

In LSB Core Generic:

In 13.5. Interface Definitions for libc

In entry bindresvport, section Description change:

Change:

   If the process has appropriate privilege, the bindresvport()
   function shall bind a socket to a privileged IP port.

To:

   If the process has appropriate privilege, the bindresvport()
   function shall bind a socket to an anonymous privileged IP
   port, that is, arbitrarily selected from the range 512 through
   1023.

   If the bind is successful and sin is not NULL, and the port
   number bound to is returned in the sin_port member of sin. Any
   caller-supplied value of sin_port is ignored.

   If sin is NULL, the address family is taken to be AF_INET and
   an available privileged port is bound to. Since there is no
   sockaddr_in structure, the port number chosen cannot be
   returned. The getsockname() may be used to query for this
   information.


section Errors, change:

   EPERM
   The process did not have appropriate privilege.

   EPFNOSUPPORT
   Address of sin did not match address family of sd.

To:

   bindresvport() may fail in the same way as bind() in ISO POSIX
   (2003). The following additional or differing failures may
   occur:

   EADDRINUSE
   All privileged ports are in use.

   EAFNOSUPPORT
   The specified address is not a valid address for the address
   family of the specified socket, or the address family is not
   supported.

   EPFNOSUPPORT
   The same meaning as EAFNOSUPPORT. Some older implementations
   may return this error instead.

     Note: At this time, only AF_INET is supported. Applications
     should be prepared for either the EAFNOSUPPORT or
     EPFNOSUPPORT error to be indicated.

